Early Game
Leave your island. You can do /hub (or alternatively bridge over).
Buy a Promising Pickaxe Promising Pickaxe, Rookie Hoe Rookie Hoe and Golden Axe. You can get the Promising Pickaxe from the Mine Merchant, the Rookie Hoe from the Farm Merchant, and the Golden Axe by crafting 2 sticks and 3 gold from the Mine Merchant.
[O] Start playing the Chocolate Factory. You can open the menu with /factory, /fc, or /chocolatefactory.
[IM] Once you get to SkyBlock Level 3, go to the Community Center and get some Account & Profile Upgrades at Elizabeth. It is recommended to upgrade Magic Find, Ender Chest Pages, and Minion slots.
Level up  Mining (Insta-mining sand in the Mushroom Desert with an Efficiency II Golden Shovel),  Farming (Farming wheat in the Hub with a Harvesting V Rookie Hoe),  Foraging (Breaking trees in The Park with an Efficiency V Golden Axe) skills and collections to get to SkyBlock Level 7. This will unlock many important areas and mechanics including the Bazaar, which will be extremely useful.
Do some NPC Flipping (also known as a form of Bazaar Flipping). The general gist of this is to buy items from certain NPCs and sell them to the Bazaar. Some of the best items to do this with are Sand Sand, Ice Ice, Packed Ice Packed Ice, Dandelion Dandelion from The Builder, Sand Sand from the Farm Merchant, Flint Flint from Pat (in the Graveyard), Iron Ingot Iron Ingots from the Mine Merchant and Iron Forger, String String, Gunpowder Gunpowder, and Slimeball Slimeballs from the Adventurer (IMPORTANT: make sure to check the Bazaar price of gunpowder and string to make sure you actually get a profit as they can fluctuate). *If you find any other reliable NPC-Flip materials, feel free to edit this list.
With the profit you have earned, construct a cobblestone generator and get an efficiency 5 golden pickaxes and haste 3 potions with enchanted Redstone. Mining 250,000 cobblestone will award you with all rarities of the Rock pet. The pets (legendary in particular) will give you a massive sum of ~13,000,000 coins (By selling to  George). It might seem like a daunting task, but the profits are worth it for the mere ~3 hours you're going to spend.
One of the best armor sets for early game is Mushroom Helmet Mushroom Armor, as it gives tripled stats at night. You could also try Hardened Diamond Helmet Hardened Diamond Armor which is sufficient for early game armor. You can craft it with Enchanted Diamond Enchanted Diamonds at Diamond Collection VII, which can be achieved with a couple of Diamond Minions and some grinding.
While this isn't meta (because no one cares about Early game swords), it is advised to use a Silver Fang Silver Fang for it's high damage and cheap cost. You could also use an Arack Arack, (while the ability is not useful) but it also has high damage, a high rarity and cheap cost for Early Game. You want to stick with one of these swords until you get an Aspect of the End Aspect of the End, or a Void Sword Void Sword for when you are in the end.
Get some more minion slots (Craft more unique minions and upgrade current minions). You should hopefully have at least 7 minion slots.
Talk to Maxwell and select a power (Fortuitous is recommended as it gives a good balance between ☣ Crit Chance and ☠ Crit Damage.)
Get some (2 - 4) Redstone Minions for your Redstone Collection, which gives Accessory Bag slots, which will be really important for Magical Power. Make sure to put Compactors (purchasable from the Bazaar) in your Redstone Minions.
Talk to the Redstone Miner and give him 1,920 Redstone (30 stacks) in total for 4 extra accessory slots.
Upgrade your pickaxe to a Lapis Pickaxe Lapis Pickaxe.
Work on some easy talismans (Buy the ones from the Adventurer).
Get some Lapis Armor Helmet Lapis Armor (Grind Lapis Zombies or purchase it from the Auction House.) It gives decent ❤ Health.
Upgrade your current axe to a Jungle Axe Jungle Axe. It is cheap and it's ability is very good.
Events are extremely good for moneymaking in the early game as they require little to no money to participate in.
You can do Diana's Mythological Ritual event, which occurs when she's elected as mayor. Buy a Common Griffin Pet and Ancestral Spade from her for 40,000 coins total and start looking for Griffin Burrows. Griffin Feathers go for around 150,000 coins on Bazaar, which is very good as they are an almost guaranteed drop.
The Spooky Festival is also very good for money making. In the night of October 29 - 31, go to the Graveyard and kill as many spooky mobs as possible. During the day, kill either zombies in the graveyard or spiders in the Spider's Den for more drops. Also, sell any Blast o' Lanterns you get from killing Wither Gourds. For some reason, even though Blast o' Lanterns are common drops they sell for 4,000 coins - 6,000 coins on the Bazaar.)
Do the Season of Jerry event (you can get more than 1,000,000 coins by selling Gifts from the Defend Jerry's Workshop event) Make sure to kill as many mobs as possible to earn the most gifts which you can sell on the Bazaar for lots of coins. You should also grind in the Glacial Cave for Red Gifts, Enchanted Ice, Glacial Fragments, and Enchanted Packed Ice. They sell for a lot on the Bazaar, especially Enchanted Packed Ice. Also, sometimes people fishing will fish up a Reindrake. Take advantage of this opportunity, because when you hit the Reindrake it has a chance to drop Gifts which you can sell on the Bazaar.
Get a Wand of Healing. This will be one of the most important items in Early - Late <, because it is one of the only items that instantly heal you, and it is also very, very cheap. However, they are severely overpriced on the auction and the best way is to get Zombie Slayer 1 and buy 16x Revenant Flesh Revenant Flesh (and a stick) and craft the wand yourself. You will need Zombie Slayer I to use it, which can be achieved by talking to Maddox the Slayer under the Tavern for a modest sum of 2,000 coins to start the Revenant Horror I quest.
[O] Get a Raider Axe from the Melancholic Viking. However, this is optional if you choose to use an Aspect of the End.
Get  Combat skill to level 12 by killing Crypt Ghouls in the Hub Crypts. The Crypts are located in a cave near the void and the Forest. Note that you should put all of your Coins in the bank, so that you don't lose them if you die to the Crypt Ghouls.
Now buy Glacite Armor reforged to Fierce (However, you can grind for it by killing Glacite Walkers in the Dwarven Mines). Make sure you get the Glacite Armor with Protection V and Growth V. If you cannot get Growth V yet, you have to buy some Grand Experience Bottles from the Bazaar, then enchant some items with an Enchantment Table.
[IM] Get an Aspect of the End, this is the most versatile thing you can have in the game. You would need this even in end game, because of its teleportation ability. If you want, you can grind for it but it is also pretty cheap on the Auction House.
Eat your Free Booster Cookie, which you can get by talking to Elizabeth in the City Hall.
Go to the End, Talk to the Lone Adventurer, and buy a Void Sword for 200k. After purchasing, grind in the end using your Aspect of the End or Raider's Axe. Next you should kill the Endermen on the top level of the End to get a full set of Ender Armor and an Ender Necklace.
Go to the Hub and reforge your Void Sword to Sharp. After doing so, go to your island and enchant it to Sharpness 5, and all the other enchantments you have unlocked. If you have not unlocked many enchantments, regularly use the Experimentation Table to earn enchanting exp. If you don't have enough levels to enchant, you can get Grand Experience Bottles from mining Ender Nodes. (Sell any Titanic Experience Bottles you get from mining ender nodes. They are worth around 500,000 coins on the bazaar.)
Return to the end with your Ender Armor equipped.
Grind Watchers using your new Void Sword which you can find in the Dragon's Nest. While you are there, if anyone spawns a dragon, it won't hurt to get some dragon fragments to sell on the Bazaar. After killing enough Watchers, you will have an Ender Cloak.
After getting the Cloak, Equip it and start killing the Obsidian Defenders that are found all around the Dragon's Nest. Eventually, you will get an Ender Belt. Now, you equip it, and can start End Node Farming.
Return to the main End Island and mine all the shiny Ender Nodes you see. They can be made of End Stone and Obsidian, until you get an Ender Gauntlet. Equip the gauntlet when you get it.
Reforge all your Ender Equipment to either Menacing or Blended. However, if you want to play as Mage class later in Dungeons, reforge them to Brilliant.
After getting all the pieces, go to the entrance of the Dragon's Nest, and talk to the Lone Adventurer. The Lone Adventurer is now wearing Superior Dragon Armor. Talk to him, and he will say that the  Watchers have taken his Dragon Shortbow Dragon Shortbow, and then grind watchers for the bow. When you get it, give it to the  Lone Adventurer and they will talk to their friend, the " Pearl Dealer", and will get him to give you a Dragon Shortbow. Talk to the Pearl Dealer, and he will give you the Dragon Shortbow.
Upgrade your Wand of Healing into a Wand of Mending.
Get as many Fairy Soul Fairy Souls as possible. NotEnoughUpdates has a fairy soul waypoints mod which you can activate in the /neu menu. Note: Some Fairy Souls require Ender Pearls/Aspect of the End to reach.
 Farming is another way to make easy money. Mushrooms are good for Farming XP, and Melons are good for money. A Rabbit pet is recommended to quickly level your Farming skill.
Early Mid Game
Start to AH flip or Bazaar flip if you haven't started already. This will increase the number of coins in your bank account, and will be used to obtain better gear later.
Get some better armor, such as Strong Dragon Helmet Strong Dragon Armor or Unstable Dragon Helmet Unstable Dragon Armor. However, if you want to do some Zealot grinding you could get Young Dragon Helmet Young Dragon Armor with Farmer Boots or Rancher's Boots. Alternatively, if you are planning to use a God Potion, get a full young dragon set, as the ✦ Speed cap will be increased by 100. (Unless you can't one shot zealots yet in which case use Potions to increase Strength and Critical Chance, or get more talismans or use a talisman optimizer) If you do grind Zealots, sell Summoning Eyes you obtain from Zealot Grinding.
Grind upper-level Endermen until you are at least  Combat 18. Now grab an Aspect of the Dragons reforged to Spicy. (Alternatively, you could get a Warped Aspect of the End without Combat 18, if you have the money to buy it. However, if you do choose to do this, your ☣ Crit Chance will be slightly lower)
A Griffin Pet works extremely well for stats and especially ✯ Magic Find; the UNCOMMON and above rarities grants Strength VII - Strength VIII and Regeneration V - Regeneration VII, both of which are extremely useful. However, the UNCOMMON Griffin Pet are about 4,000,000 coins on the Auction House.
Start doing dungeons. Have people carry you until you have completed at least The Catacombs - Floor V (Unless you're good at the game, carry your team!) . (Do some research on the The Catacombs - Floor IV. The boss fight is actually quite complicated)
When doing dungeons, always have some Superboom TNT Superboom TNT and someSpirit Leap Spirit Leap. Superboom TNT will help you destory crypts and certain walls/floors, and spirit leaps can help you get out of a tricky situation.
If you want a decent bow (which you don't really need but is nice to have), get the Spirit Shortbow Spirit Shortbow (make sure to frag it). It deals fine damage, and it's spirit bomb spirit ability can be useful.
Replace your Ender Belt Ender Belt with an Adaptive Belt Adaptive Belt. They cost around 500,000 coins - 1,000,000 coins on the Auction House.
If you have  Combat XX (20), buy 9 Beating Hearts from the Bazaar and get the Bloody power at Maxwell. It is really cheap and give decent ❁ Strength and ☠ Crit Damage. However, if you play Tank in Dungeons, buy 9 End Stone Shulkers instead, for it gives decent ❤ Health and ❈ Defense. And if you play Mage in Dungeons, buy 9 Ender Monocles instead, for it gives lots of ✎ Intelligence. Some other options are the Silky power, which you can unlock from 9 Luxurious Spools, which give nice ✦ Speed and ☠ Crit Damage. You can also get the Shaded power, which you can unlock from 9 Dark Orbs. However, they are very expensive on the bazaar so it is your choice if you want to get it or not.
[IM] A Livid Dagger Livid Dagger is one of the best weapons for mid-game. However, you must complete The Catacombs - Floor V to use it. It is a good choice, with great damage and 100% ☣ Crit Chance. However, a clean one costs around 7,000,000 coins, so it is an investment, but is definitely worth it. If you have completed The Catacombs - Floor VI, you should get a Bouquet of Lies Bouquet of Lies.
[IM] Upgrade your armor as well, to either Superior Dragon Helmet Superior Dragon Armor, which is quite expensive, or Shadow Assassin Helmet Shadow Assassin Armor (Make sure to frag your armor). You don't need to get the chestplate if you don't have enough coins, and you can substitute it with a Zombie Knight Chestplate, reforged to Fierce. If you can't afford these sets yet, you should save up money from events, flipping or grinding as they will last throughout mid-game and into early late game. It is important to note that you should be aware of the Dungeon Level requirement, as it is a common mistake for players to equip Zombie Knight Chestplate with a higher Dungeon Level requirement than the player has. If you are too lazy to grind for one with an appropriate Dungeon Skill requirement, you could substitute with a Strong Dragon Chestplate.
Replace your Ender Cloak Ender Cloak with a Shadow Assassin Cloak Shadow Assassin Cloak reforged to Menacing or Blended. They cost about 2,500,000 coins on the Auction House.
[ST] A money making method at this point is to grind The Catacombs - Floor II. Set your catacombs RNG meter (accessible via Skyblock Menu > Skills > Dungeoneering Skill > "The Catacombs" > and right above the close icon) to  Recombobulator. Keep grinding Floor 2, and sell Recombobulators you get from the Obsidian chests for about ~3,000,000 coins profit (Chest price: 5 million coins, Recombobulators sell for ~8 million coins). Also sell any Red Scarf Red Scarfs and Scarf's Studies Scarf's Studies you might occasionally get. WARNING: Do NOT get chests with Adaptive Blade Adaptive Blade or Necromancer's Brooch Necromancer's Brooch or Hot Potato Book Hot Potato Books or any of the Enchantments (except for Ultimate Wise or Rejuvenate). These do not sell for more money, in fact, you most likely will lose money. If all the chests don't have any good loot, just get the free chest.
Focus on more talismans and minions for some passive money income (at least 25% talisman completion and 12 minion slots). ThirtyVirus has a tutorial on talismans. You can complete half of the tutorial. Here is the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MV8vo68Y2VI. For minion slots, you can craft as many minions to Tier 5, or alternatively get the Minion Slots upgrade from  Elizabeth,
[ST] Use a Minion Spreadsheet to find a minion that consistently makes a good amount of money. Alternatively, continue using collection minions to get more upgrades and recipes. Snow Minions and Clay Minions are commonly used, as they make a decent amount of money.
Start doing Slayer Quests.  Maddox the Slayer is underneath the Bar.
Replace your Ender Necklace Ender Necklace with a Molten Necklace Molten Necklace. However, if you are willing to grind for it, get a Rift Necklace Rift Necklace with as many Rift Timecharms as you can.
Having at least half of the Fairy Souls is recommended, but not required.
And maybe get some Crimson Armor for the Crimson Isle.
Dungeons and Slayers aren't all of Skyblock. You can do something you find fun in, like grinding Collections or Bestiary milestones, or maybe your  Foraging skill (Which will increase your ❁ Strength. Make sure to use a Jungle Axe or Treecapitator reforged to Lumberjack's), or maybe just doing some Commissions in the Dwarven Mines, or perhaps exploring the Rift Dimension.
Now that you have killed some Dragons and gotten level 3 - 4 on all Slayers you are:

Mid Game
Now this is going to be a lot of money grinding

Grind tens of millions of coins using any method. Make sure that you like your money-making method, so you will be more motivated to do it, and therefore make more money. Most people choose to Auction Flip, Bazaar Flip, or grind Zealots.
[IM] Do lots of Enderman Slayer until you get Enderman Slayer level 5. Then, get a Juju Shortbow Juju Shortbow. If you find it difficult to grind Enderman Slayer, ModernSoldier has a tutorial on how to get it quickly. Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nIJfmEu73Jk.
Upgrade your Wand of Mending into a Wand of Restoration.
Get better Pets, such as the Blue Whale Pet (for Tanks), Baby Yeti Pet, Sheep Pet (for Mages), and Tiger Pet or Lion Pet (For Berserks).
Do Dungeons (a lot). Do Dungeons until you complete Floor 7.
Get Frozen Blaze or Necron's Armor. For Frozen Blaze, you need a LEGENDARY Blaze Pet.
Get one of the following: Shadow Fury Shadow Fury, Bouquet of Lies Bouquet of Lies, Felthorn Reaper Felthorn Reaper and a Juju Shortbow if you hadn't already. The Juju Shortbow is a essential weapon for Dungeons. Also, the Shadow Fury is not recommended because it is too expensive compared to the other weapons you can use. If you have the money, you can even get the Giant's Sword Giant's Sword or possibly even the Valkyrie Valkyrie/Scylla Scylla (Without scrolls).
Get Wolf Slayer 6 and a Mana Flux Power Orb or the preferably better version, Overflux Power Orb.
Minimally 50% talisman completion, consider using a Recombobulator 3000 on the LEGENDARY talismans.
Get your Slayer levels higher (level 5 - 6 on all slayers except the Voidgloom Seraph, get Voidgloom Seraph to level 3 - 5).
Your skill average level should be at least 25 at this point.
Upgrade your Wand of Restoration into a Wand of Atonement. However, this step is optional if you cannot afford it or if you don't have the Zombie Slayer level requirement.
Maybe focus on the Crimson Isle a little more. It will be useful later.
Late Game
Max collections one by one using collection minions.
Get any of the Kuudra armor variants (Crimson Armor, Aurora Armor, Fervor Armor, Terror Armor, and Hollow Armor) for Crimson Isle. (However, it depends on the situation you are in, for example if you want ❁ Strength go for Crimson Helmet Crimson Armor, or ☠ Crit Damage go for Terror Helmet Terror Armor, or ✎ Intelligence go for Aurora Helmet Aurora Armor)
Get any of the Wither Armor variants if you hadn't gotten them already.
Get any of the Necron's Blade variants with at least two of the Necron's Blade Scrolls. The Hyperion Hyperion is the most recommended because it gives a lot of ✎ Intelligence.
Replace your Adaptive Belt Adaptive Belt with an Implosion Belt Implosion Belt and your Ender Gauntlet Ender Gauntlet with an Gauntlet of Contagion Gauntlet of Contagion. It will increase the explosion damage from your Hyperion Hyperion.
Get all Slayers to level 8 or 9. Zombie Slayer level 8's health regen perk is actually really good, so it might be worth getting earlier.
Upgrade your Wand of Restoration into a Wand of Atonement if you hadn't already.
Do any of the methods you have found to get more money on the last few things you are missing.
Now that you have done some Crimson Isle stuff to ready up, now you can go full tryhard and fish, do daily quests. And get your well deserved break. Then now you are in the:
End Game
Get everything in the game.
Do everything in the game.
Grab an Emerald Blade.
Grind the Master Catacombs and get a Dark Claymore.
Grab all the pets.
Max everything out.
Flex with your millions of damage.
Nice, now you know what to do